# SEMDataGimmics
Additonal scripts to process, sort, etc.. data produced by electron microscopes (mainly for Zeiss Crossbeam)
You may install additional python libraries such as: exifread, os, tkinter, cv2, numpy. PIL, statistics, etc..
I recommend installing these libraries using pip. (Ex.: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/cli/pip_install/)

Projects:

AtlasImagesorter:
Images from the Arlas Software, generated by queuing multiple areas(regions), lead to an outpur folder containing numerated images.
Those images are not necessarily correlated to each other and need to be sorted to different folders. This application takes all data from a defined numerical range of regions and creates a new folder with the names images. If needed a collage of all images in this folder may be generated. The original resolution of the images is conserved in this process.

This process comes in really handy for screenings consiting of multiple arrays, which are measured with the SEM in an automated measure (In the Atlas software).


MicroscopeScaleBars:
This programm takes all image files in a given folder and creates corresponding scale bars at the bottom right of these images. Currently this is automated for Tescan, Jeol and Zeiss SEM images, as well as images from a generic light microscope. The calibrated values may be adjusted when using a different microscope. All microscope listed are used in the Philipps University of Marburg. (Dont forget to select the right operating system you are working on at the top!)

The implemented FFt tool generates an 2D-FFT tranformation image of each SEM-image. It automatically tries to detect significant frequencies and calculate the corresponding periodicity from the calibrated values. This may be tweeked by the SE/BSE-Range values but usually only works for high contrast images.


ZeissMetaDataExtractor:
Extracts meta data from SEM-images generated by a Zeiss CrossBeam-Station using the Zeiss software. Currently it extracts the orientation angle of all images in a given folder and writes a corresponding text file containing all results. In the code comments are made to help the user change the desired extracted meta data to other data fields.
